Lesson 4: は, が, を Particles

か
It is very easy to form questions in Japanese. All thats needed is to add か to the end of the sentence. 

は 
This particle presents the subject of the sentence. It puts forward the topic that you want to talk about and comment on. Nonsubject phrases are made topics with the help of は. It can be used to promote time sentences as the topic of each sentence.
Notice that sentences without subjects are very common in Japanese, and that Japanese speakers actually tend to omit subjects when they think it's clear. 
Notice that は is used instead of が or を when the sentence is negative. 

が
This particle introduces, or presents, an item X. In English, this would be uttered with extra emphasis, to show that the identity is a new piece of information, such as filling in the blank on an information sheet. The only particle used for question words such as "what" and "who" is が. 

を
This particle indicates a "direct objects". This is something that is directly involved in, or affected by an event. 

に
This particle has many uses. 
(1) is the goal towards which things move. 
(2) is the time at which an event takes place. This can be used for days of the week (ex. Monday), for numerical time expressions such as "10:45" and "in September". 
(3) to indicate the occasion on which you do something.
However, you do not use this particle with time expressions defined relative to the present moment, such as "today" and "tomorrow", or expressions describing regular intervals, such as "every day"n or when using "when", or for parts of the day like "in the morning" and "at night", or when using the term "the weekend".

へ
This particle also indicates the goal of movement. Note that へ can replace に only in the "goal-of-movement" sense. The particle に must be used for time references and it's other uses. 

で
This particle 
(1) indicates where an event described by the verb takes place. 
(2) to describe the means of transportation and the instrument of use.

の
This is a particles that connects two nouns. The second noun provides the main idea, and the first one makes it more specific. It also acts like the posessive (x's) in English. Although the order can be changed, Japanese seems to be more consistent when arranged with the main idea at the end and the description placed before it. 

も
This is a particle that has several uses.
(1) indicates that an item, too, has a shared property. In english, the word "too" can be placed after the sentence, as a whole, but not in Japanese. In Japanese, も can only go where は is in the sentence. 
(2) can be used when two or more people perform the same activity. も can replace the particle は, が, and を.
(3) You can also use も when you go to two places, do something on two different occasions, and so forth.  In this case, も goes after the particle に. 
Notice, it is not uncommon for particles は, が, and を to be used with the particle も rather than being replaced by it. 

ね
Sentences often end with the tags ね when the speaker is seeking the listener's confirmation or agreement. It is equivalent to the "right?" used at the end of an English sentence.

よ
Is added to a sentence if the speaker wants to assure the listener of what has been said. When よ is added, a statement becomes an authoritative degree. 

と
This particle has two functions. 
(1) is to connect two nouns, such as "and" in English. 
(2) is to describe with whom you do something, as in "together with".

や
This is used to connect two nouns, as does と. や suggests that the things referred to are proposed as examples, and that you are not citing an exhaustive list. 

Combinations:

には
This is generally used in sentences describing a place in terms of the things that are found there. 

ので
Can be used to give the reason for the situation described in the balance of the sentence, such as "because". Semantically, ので is just like から, but stylistically, ので sounds slightly more formal. 
